Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number 533. In this episode,
Scott talks with Carolino Stewart
about building remote first teams.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes today. I'm talking
with Carolina store. He's calling
in from Australia. How are
you? Hey, I'm good. I'm
very happy to talk to
you because I'm a remote
worker, as people who listened
to the show know I've
been a remote worker now
for gosh, almost nine years,
and you wrote this wonderful
medium post that kind of
went viral on building remote
first teams. It's quite extensive
with this post. Yeah, actually
I was giving a talk
at a company that I'm
working at about remote culture.
So I'm working at an
Nevato, which isn't a remote
first company, but a remote
friendly company. And there are
a lot of people who
are really interested in remote
way of working, but because
it's a free hundred plus
company, it's quite hard to
implement that. Not, you know,
not from very beginning, so
it's quite challenging. So I
thought it would be beneficial
to start talking about it
more openly, have more workshops
about that and just the
general knowledge and are doing
pretty well right now in
terms of implementing flexible schedules
and what not. And I
started writing this talk. It
was supposed to be a
20 minute talk and it
just grew into like 50
minute narrative and then like
another Friday minute discussion. So
I decided, Hmm, maybe it
wouldn't be beneficial to actually
share that with the world.
And then actually when I
finished the pose, it was
so long, I started thinking
about writing a book because
it was so ridiculously long.
Yeah. Medium has this feature
where they tell you how
many minutes it will take
to read. And it says
15 minutes, which on the
internet is like an hour,
you know? Yeah, no one
read that. But the, the
thing that was interesting, I
thought was that the title
hits you right off the
bat. It says building first.
And it's that kind of
like a controversial statement, you
know, that got people thinking
when you say things like
building websites and mobile first
and people like, no, that's
insane. And then of course
they do that. What do
you mean by remote first?
So I think it's really
important to differentiate in between
remote friendly and remote first.
And it actually is something
that I was very frustrated
about when I started working
here in Australia. So as
a person moving from Europe
to Australia, like that's quite
a significant flight, 40 hours,
like it's just very far.
So I'm even thinking about
taking time off to visit
your family. Like it's a
very big deal. So if
you're a, not at a
remote first company, that might
be problematic because you just
have to, you cannot work
at cross so many times
that is because it's like
nine hour difference. It's really
difficult to sync with teammates.
You basically can't do that
unless you're working hilariously late
or really early in the
morning. So it becomes problematic.
So kind of out of,
out of that frustration, I
really started thinking about what's
the difference in between remote
first and remote friendly? Because
a lot of people say
like, Oh yeah, it's totally
fun if you work from
home two days per week,
but like, that's not really
rebel if you know what
I mean, because when you're
remote first that basically says
that you can work from
literally anywhere in the world
at any time. So that's
what remote first means to
me, I've found in, in
working at, at Microsoft remotely,
that everyone has an excuse
about like why remoteness is
bad. What are, what are
some of the excuses that
companies use to say that
we shouldn't have remote workers?
I think it's mostly meetings
trying to coordinate meetings and
trying to have that face
to face time that you're
lacking when you're remote. And
honestly, now that I'm working
in a much bigger organization
that I used to work
at in the past, I
actually find that problem being
quite true. Like sometimes you
just can't, you know, move
things forward without like kind
of having a face to
face or voice to voice
meeting. So I can definitely
understand that excuse, although like
really trying to force fully
have a meeting with all
the people at cross a
big team at once. I
don't know if that's hugely
beneficial, but I definitely understand
excuse of like trying to
be on the same page
because otherwise in some scenarios
and sometimes in some companies,
the communication channels aren't too
great and collaboration isn't very
strong. So it takes a
long time to discuss something
even in person. So if
you think about putting that
communication on email or Slack
or wherever else, it will
be like just terribly inefficient.
So I can definitely understand
that concern. Like the remote
worker is always the one
that has to change their
behavior or change their situation.
Or, you know, we say
fall on their sword. Like
I currently have three people
who work for me and
I'm in Portland, which is
GMT minus eight, they're GMT
minus five, but I've also
got one person who's in
Ireland, which I think isn't
GMT. And it always seems
like the Irish guy is
the one who has to
stay up late or get
up early, you know? And
he does it calmly and
quietly. And doesn't, doesn't say
anything, but I'm trying to
realize that he hurts more
as a remote and almost
hides his remoteness by working
later or putting up with
our weirdly houred meetings. Does
it always have to be
that the remote person hurts
the most? That's definitely something
I've thought about a lot.
And that's something that has
been happening to me in
the past when I was
working remotely, mostly from Europe,
for us based companies, because
that was always a six
or nine hour difference. And
I always stayed up late
to have meetings or calls
and whatnot. And I did
it without being negative about
it because I just always
thought, well, this is the
price that you pay for
ultimate flexibility of working wherever.
And whenever you want to,
which is a great flexibility,
especially if you're a person
who like really likes, I
dunno, like to exercise or
like have 100% freedom, like
it's bright, but I don't
know. I just kinda always
fought that it was the
price to pay. So I
shouldn't complain about it. But
on the other hand, it
kinda, it kinda weirds me
out. Especially if you have
a partially remote company and
you have a headquarters somewhere
in one place, usually in
the U S and then
you have a bunch of
people who are scattered all
over the world and they
have to comply with the
HQ who sets the meetings.
That kind of feels awkward.
Maybe you could rotate the
meetings to like, make it
equally uncomfortable for all the
people. I don't know if
that would be really feasible.
You, you say in your,
in your post that an
excuse is I can't get
this ASAP as soon as
possible. And that in, in
that idea that it has
to happen immediately. We stop
valuing each other's time and
attention. And to our point
just now we may be
valuing the remote workers time
less, just because they're remote.
Yeah. Maybe because again, you
have to somehow have meetings.
So someone will have a
meeting either really early or
really late. So it will
be a nuisance to someone,
for sure. I don't know
if that's necessarily something disrespectful,
but I think there would
be ways to kind of
mitigate how uncomfortable that makes
you feel. Because like, not
like I hate meetings in
the afternoons, like I never
scheduled them. And if someone
really wants to talk to
me in the afternoon, I'm
like, Hmm, can't really do
like, that's my time off.
And I do whatever I
want. So I remember being
slightly annoyed by that when
I was working remotely with
us, which basically meant meetings
in the evening or at
like meetings in my pajamas,
which isn't like the best
thing to do. So, yeah.
So you said that you
like your afternoon is your
time. Everyone has their time.
That they're the most productive
or the time when they're
expected to work. And they
try to, you know, we
spend our whole lives trying
to balance time off with
time at work. Do, do
you think sometimes that the
bosses and HQ think that
we, the remote workers are
just hanging out just going
to the zoo every day
and just, you know, not
working, are they, is there,
is there always that stigma
that the remote worker isn't
working? Hmm. I don't know.
I personally never felt that,
but I was quite lucky
to work at some really
good companies who really knew
how to work remotely. And
they're really good in terms
of company culture as well
and collaboration. So I personally
never felt that, but I
can definitely see that happening
because it's easy to think
like, well, they have no
overlap of the HQ, so
they could be doing anything
like just slacking instead of
working. And then you kind
of get into deadlines. So
if I've trying to control
and trying to figure out
is that enough contributions per
day. And I just think
that's a very toxic environment
to be in. Like, I,
I would personally hate that.
Do you think that It
gets overwhelming the downsides? Like
I find that it's quite
lonely to be remote and
leaders that get it are
not very common. Do you
ever just say, well, it's
just not worth it? Hmm.
I don't know. I D
I definitely get frustrated with
it. And even when I
was writing that article, thinking
about the downsides, I was
like, Oh, it actually gets
really hard sometimes. But honestly,
especially now in my current
situation where I live in
Australia and all of my
friends basically, and all of
my family is back in
Europe. I really value remote
because if I had full
flexibility to like travel and
see my friends travel and
see my family that's really
important to me. So I
can tackle the downsides with
easiness or with difficulty, but
for that price, definitely. But
I can see it being
very, very lonely, especially again,
if you have like leadership
oriented leadership, look at it
somewhere else, you just feel
like you don't have any
impact. Do you feel like
you don't have any, you
know, a connection to the
company? Like I can, I
can definitely see that being
failing only in small or
big teams. It doesn't really
matter to be honest, When
I go up to the
main office, there's this kind
of energy and we spend
a lot more time, time
standing and meetings, and there's
like, there there's a, you
know, an energy is an
intensity of being like on
or at the home office.
And, and then I, I
think to myself, well, maybe
I should move here, but
then I come back home
and then, you know, it's,
there's an extremist. There's like,
there's, there's the extreme intensity
of being there. And there's
kind of the downside of
coming, coming back. It seems
hard to find balance, you
know? Yeah. It's definitely either
like really intense human interaction,
which for me as a
person is a little bit
too much or you go
home and you're completely alone.
But what I found when
I'm working remotely, and sometimes
I'm working for like a
little kind of friend coworking
space, super small for 10
people, and sometimes I'm working
from home alone. So it's
just me and my cat
sometimes more partnered as well.
But sometimes I go to
the office when I'm like,
Oh, I have a lot
of meetings. I should just
go to the office and
do that in person. It
will be easier. But yeah,
it does get really lonely,
which is why I try
to compensate that work loneliness
with like socializing with my
friends, which actually has a
really good effect on mental
health. Because if you really
make conscious effort to spend
time with your friends after
work, like it's a good
pastime. You don't spend time
overworking, which is really easy
for remote people because again,
time zones and you kind
of compensate for the lack
of face to face interaction
at work. Yeah. We've tried
to do open Skype calls.
So we'll dedicate a monitor
to just an open Skype.
And even though you don't
have a meeting, maybe you'll
put the person off to
the corner. It's almost like
having a cubicle mate that
sits next to you, and
then we'll position the camera
rather than pointing at your
face, pointing to your side
of your face. So this
way you're not staring at
some, you know, someone's random
face during a code, but
the idea that you can
turn your head to one
side and there's your, your
cubicle buddy, and we'll just
keep a call open for,
you know, an hour, hour
and a half, and we'll
kind of quietly work and
do our thing, but there's
just at least that sense
that your coworker is there
we'll have remote two remote
people do that, like a
portal that's open to the
other side. Yeah. I think,
I think I've seen that
before. I think there's even
a product that does that.
Just people hanging out together,
not necessarily for proposal meeting.
I think that that can
definitely help with the illness,
although I can kind of
imagine it being slightly creepy,
like when you're at home
and you're like, Oh, I'm
wearing jumpsuits and, or like
your cat jumps at your
face or something that I
always like that happens. Right.
Sure. I think it's all
about balance, right? For me
sometimes I get frustrated because
I'm either at home and
it's quiet or I'm at
a cafe and it's too
much, or the internet sucks.
I've really struggled with, I
want the people around me,
but I need decent internet
to have a video call.
So I don't know about
how it works there, but
I, if I, even if
I go to like a
cafe or somewhere to sit
and have coffee, there's not
quality enough internet as good
as my house for me
to really interact with people.
So I interact with other
people at home using video.
Yeah. I tend to do
that as well. Although Australia
has really well known problems
with internet connection and at
home, I have DSL, which
is the equivalent of maybe
12 megabytes down, which is
hilariously bad. Even in comparison
to internet ahead in the
suburbs in Poland, This just
like a, it's like your
phone It's Oh, no, Ellen.
If we tethered our phones,
we would have like 80
men a mix down. So
it's really bad. Like it's,
it's disappointing really bad. Although
that depends on the area
of the city where like,
which city do you live
in which area of the
city? Because there is a
there's internet connection called NBN,
which is supposed to be
like cable speed, very fast
internet, but not everyone can
get it. And unfortunately we
didn't get it. So our
connection is quite ridiculously bad.
Sometimes we just sit@homeandstareongoogle.com trying
to load for like free
minutes. And you just want
to give up, so going
into a cafe, if you
know, a good place is
a really good thing, because
usually they will have a
better connection that you do
at home, which is quite
ridiculous. But yeah, sometimes it
just gets too busy for
me. It's a thing of
like determining, which are my
favorite spots. I know when
they're busy, I know. And
they're like really good to
sit in to like, kind
of hang out for an
hour or two, but it's
always kind of uncomfortable for
longer than that. So I'm
not a huge cafe worker.
Yeah. If I only had
one that had great internet
and I also don't like,
I don't know how it
works there, but after a
few hours, they start to
look at you with a
side-eye like, why are you
here? You haven't ordered enough
to be here. As long
as you are here, you
should go. They don't ever
say anything. They just look
at you and make you
feel sad. So then you
have to leave. I kind
of experienced that when I
was traveling to U S
multiple times, especially in New York,
San Francisco was better, but
New York was just, they hate
it. There's no, yeah, there's
no internet and most of
the cafes. And if you
go and even order a
lot, because I always feel
bad about it. They're just
like, just leave. Can you
leave? Right. You're taking up
space that a paying customer
as frustrate. Okay. Well, let's
think about less of it.
Let's not think about the
negativity, but let's think about
the positive stuff. I think
the number one thing that
makes me happy about working
remote is that I don't
have to commute. My wife
has a half an hour
commute. I took my kids
to campus morning. It was
an hour like what's the
average commute. Now I think
it's around an hour within
the us and UK as
well. I actually was looking
up the stats for the
Erica because I was curious,
I live for the central
and the office that I'm
commuting to is really central,
but the commute is unlike
the worst tramline in Melbourne
and always crowded. It doesn't
matter. It's always something weird
happening on the tram and
takes like 45 minutes one
way. And I just feel
like it's wasted time. Like
I just it's really bad.
I just really don't enjoy
that. I know some people
actually use their laptop on
a tram or like read
something or listen to podcasts.
But for me, it just
feels like you're trying to
force me into this tram
or bus and just feels
like a waste of time.
So I definitely think that
not having to commute is
one of the best things.
Yeah. I could see myself
perhaps tethering my phone and
checking email, but you know,
there's only so much of
that you can do. And
if email, the internet comes
and goes, of course I
have, when I was commuting,
I had to drive a
car and then you're just
stuck. And I think it
increases your stress and it
might even shorten your life.
Yeah. I read some studies
about stress connected to commuting,
and there's basically no positivity
in commute at all. I
mean, sure. You could maybe
cycle in some cities with
good weather and whatnot and
backtracks. But other than that,
I can't see any positive
outcomes of that. Could it
be argued then that remote
workers could be more productive
because we have that extra
hour or hour and a
half a day. And plus
I feel like remote workers,
because we feel a little
bit guilty about being remote.
We also tend to work
more hours at night. Oh
yeah. I feel like remote
workers definitely try to overcompensate
because like, they feel like
they have so many distractions
at their homes. You need
to make up for that.
And also you have to
show more output because well,
no one sees you at
the office. So how would
they know how good you
are? Right. Which is kind
of toxic as well. Like
it has a downside, but
to me the time just
commute time, that's not wasted
as just more time to
myself. I'm usually up quite
early. So I can even
start work at seven and
I'm done by free. And
I have so much time
to myself, which is great.
Doesn't that mean that you
are a person who sprints,
like you don't sit down
and check Reddit from seven
to three, you are sitting
down and you work and
when you are done, then
you are done. It sounds
like you've compartmentalized your work
quite, quite nicely. That, that,
that takes some willpower. I
would think I actually struggle
with destructions. Sometimes I get
stuck on Twitter or I
start reading some medium articles,
but it's not too bad.
Or the eternal problem of
too many Slack channels for
every existing and our current
state of, of technology. But
yeah, it's, it's not too
bad. I must say, I
just prefer to be productive
and do whatever I plan
to do for a day
and then work on my
side projects or just go
out or do whatever else
I plan to do. Yeah.
I feel like I, I,
distraction is a big problem
and I, I'm always working
at different times. I talk
a lot about work life
balance, but I'm trying to
make up for things like
today. Mike pick my kids
up at camp at four.
So I'm very aware of
the fact that there was
a 60 minute period in
the middle of the day
where I was gone. I
was not working. I was
with my kids. So when
I put them to sleep
tonight, I will try to
make up that hour. I
wish I could be more
focused and just compartmentalize my
work. I've kind of learned
to accept that, especially in
like deeply technical work or
even design work, you just
can't do more than six
hours per day. Like it's
just impossible. I don't know
how many people have the
mental capacity to be highly
productive for more than six
hours. I definitely can't. So
I have just embraced that.
And besides when sure. Remote
workers are trying to overcompensate,
so work longer hours, and
they're very conscious of the
distractions, like going through a
gym, going out for lunch
or whatever else they do.
But if you think critically
about people at offices, they
procrastinate all the time. Like
it's not really a problem.
That's really a remote person
problem. Like it happens in
offices all the time. People
go play ping pong, people
chat for like 40 minutes
by the elevator or elsewhere.
So I don't know. I
just don't try not to
get myself that I was
away for Fredman is because
like my cat was annoying
or something else. Like, I
didn't know. I tried to
reach my goals for the
day every single day and
try to be as productive
as possible, but not trying
to get myself, which is
a problem for remote workers.
Like it's quite obvious that
they got themselves into working
more because of that overcompensation
of like lack of your
physical presence in the office.
So you, so you're arguing
for not just self care,
but also for forgiving oneself
and saying, listen, you're only
going to get so many
hours of work done. You're
really not going to you.
Shouldn't fool yourself into thinking
that you're going to get
12 productive hours a day.
And there's no reason to
feel bad about that. The
reality is people work a
little bit and then they
take a break and then
they work a little bit.
Yeah, definitely. I mean, I
say that, but I struggle
with that mindset all the
time. And I was even
thinking about that lately, how
we perceive people on the
web, like people who work
in the industry and how
much they output and were
so output oriented and think
that artists achieve so much
and we achieve so little
as individuals. It's a problem.
Like we, we have to
kind of cut ourselves a
little bit of Slack and
realize, okay, this is the
amount of time I probably
will be productive today because
that's my mental capacity. And
also you have to take
breaks, but you know, it's
reasonable to set up small
goals and just push forward.
And, and if you, if
you have progress each day,
that's good. Like that's what
you have to count on
because you can't just set
unreasonable, unreasonable goals and sacrifice
your own personal time just
to be like, Oh, I
clock nine hours. Yes. That
was really great because I
don't think anyone thinks that
after like nine hours of
work, Now you had mentioned
slacking off, which remind me
of Slack, which everyone seems
to think is the, you
know, the second coming of
the great productivity tool that,
you know, Moses himself brought
down the 10 commandments and
they went back up and
brought us Slack. I personally
find Slack to be extremely
distracting. And I'm now in
seven different slacks and there's
no easy way to sign
into the mall. I'm constantly
switching around. It's almost like
having seven Slack channels is
like opening up seven tabs
in your browser that are
all refreshing with new information
that you're not sure if
you need or not. So
you just panic and run
around checking stuff. And none
of it is any value.
I am surprised. I love
my friends at Slack and
I originally liked Slack, but
if you don't have one
Slack channel, I don't know
how people survive. Like I
don't know what you can
do with more than one.
Yeah. I definitely, I love
their design and I love
the execution. I'm a fan
of slag, but yeah, I'm
in several slacks. I think
five at this point, I
think I left four of
them because I just couldn't
read them. And I was
like, I just can't bear
the stress of just having
those unread notifications. So many
of them, I have to
look at it during the
work hours. Definitely because there's
just so many notifications from
like the pulleys or bugs
stuff that I have to
react to. So I definitely
have to check that. And
there are some questions that
I just ask synchronously to
be able, that I work
with. So that's good. But
other than that, I've experimented
with do not disturb. I
experimented with hiding old the
channels and the, that don't
have unreads, which is actually
quite calming. I found quite
a good feature, but definitely
I think second gen and
people really love it, but
I think it's really dangerous
for productivity. I definitely my
best work happens when I
turn it off. Like, but
that's work outside of work
actually, because during work times
again, like I have to
have it all Right. Would
it not be fair to
say then that your feelings
about email are probably similar?
Like email is just Slack
with a crappy interface and
a little bit more asynchronous.
You do your best work
when it's closed. Yeah. I
only opened email like twice
per day. Maybe In my
productivity talks, I challenge people
and I would challenge the
people who are listening right
now to not check email
in the morning. If you
check email first thing in
the morning, it's a really
easy way to time travel
to after lunch. Yeah. Yeah,
definitely. I mean, it always
depends on the person how
much email they get. I
never got a lot of
emails because I'm very clear
on my expectations. I don't
sign up for a lot
of things. I'm very picky.
I'm quite efficient with the
conversations that I have. So
it's not too bad for
me, but I definitely can
see that happening. And I
think it's super refreshing to
just keep it to once
or twice per day. Like
it's meant to be a,
so Don expect that someone
will reply to you in
15 minutes. So when thinking
about hiring, what do you
do if a company isn't
like, what if you're the
first remote? Or what if
you're just trying to get
hired somewhere? Like people won't
hire you unless there's already
remote that. Right. Usually, yes.
I actually, when I was
looking for a new gig
last year in November, I
talked to a lot of
companies and a lot of
them claimed that they were
remit and they were in,
there are a lot of
companies who are US-based and
say like, yeah, we are
remote. And then when you
say I'm from Europe or
from Australia and they're like,
no, we don't do that.
So that's again, circling back
to remote first and remote
friendly. Like again, that's, that's
just saying that. Sure. Like
you can work outside of
an office, but within a
country. So to me, this
kind of faking remoteness, so
definitely it's better to go
into a company that has
been already doing a remote
because they probably have some
tools in place. They have
some experience. Otherwise it's quite
scary, depending on which scale,
if it's a small startup,
then I guess you have
more control over the process.
You can kind of implement
changes quickly. So that would
work better. But in a
bigger companies, just transferring, you
know, like changing from completely
onsite company to remote company
can oftentimes be a disaster
because they just don't have
the tools or the experience.
So I think if you're
trying to build a remote
culture, definitely you have to
hire people who have experienced
that and have knowledge to
share in that topic. And
when you, when you finally
have hired someone, do you
think it's important to match
the job perks? Cause it
seems like onsite people get
parties and perks and different
things that are available or
they might get different health
care while you're in another
country and you might get
different healthcare. How do you
match the perks of remotes
and onsite employees? So that's
a thing that might be
quite problematic, but I still
think it's an issue that
can be solved. I was
always very frustrated because I
never got any perks. And
also you're always, and most
scenarios, a consultant from overseas.
So you pay your own
tax, you do your own
accounting, you did this and
that. So there are a
lot of, there's a lot
of overhead for you as
a person. And there are
no parks. Like you don't
get a free phone or
like sometimes they didn't even
get a free laptop. You
don't, you don't get then
thing. And I'm like, well,
I'm the same? Like, I'm
the same quality of an
employee, right? You hired me
full time to work at
a company. So there's no
difference in between me and
a person who is like
in country X working in
an office. So I think
indefinitely, like order equipment and
send it to them. Like,
that's not a problem. You
can match health insurance. You
can say like, okay, what's
the cost of a health
insurance in our country. I'm
going to pay that on
top of your salary or
your career plan. Like you
can, you can fix that.
So that's just kind of
up to the company to
make that work. And I
think there are companies that
do that, like buffer or,
or help scout. Do you
think that there's just a
list, like I see at
the end of your post,
you list out some of
the companies that we all
know are good at remote
stuff, but I mean, surely
there must be a better
way to find folks than
just to pick the top
12 companies. Yeah. There is,
there is a good hub
repository that Jessica from Jessica
card from, from get hub
was working on and people
contribute to it for like
the last couple months. But
again, they have, all of
them have different understandings of
remit and a lot of
them are U S only,
which again, enters that gray
area of, is it really
remote or is it not?
So yeah, I actually found
it really problematic. It's a
really hyped topic to talk
about remote. Everyone is like,
we love remote. There are
so many remote jobs, but
if you start looking for
them, there isn't many, I
feel like remote is still
the thing that is very,
very viable in the U
S but if you are
from Europe or if we
are from Asia or Australia,
that just becomes such a
novelty and such a thing
that's difficult to do that.
You have to overcome a
lot to make that work.
I think that it's very
it's for lack of a
better word it's foreign, right?
We don't know what's involved
tax wise or monetary wise.
It's just, it's it's the
unknown, isn't it? Yeah. There
are definitely a lot of
costs involved, but also a
lot of gains because sometimes
you don't have an HQ.
Sometimes it's just cheaper to
hire elsewhere. There are just
many, many aspects of understanding
what remote really entails. How
important is it that people,
you know, either speak or
write extremely, you know, excellent
English that they're will well
spoken and well, easy to
communicate with? Hmm. I wouldn't
say I worked with, well,
English is not my primary
language obviously, but I was
working with people who had,
I would say intermediate English,
and I was able to
communicate with them quite effectively.
So I wouldn't discourage hiring
people who don't have perfect
English. And, but I think
that communication skills are absolutely
necessary and it's crucial that
they are really good and
it doesn't really rely on
whether you're from us or
English speaking country, because I,
I worked with some people
who, you know, were native
and English and direct, terrible
communicators. So I wouldn't say
like, that's, that's a definite
if you're a, not from
that country, but it is
definitely a super important, So
folks can find your medium
post at medium.com/at Fox Fox.
And you've got a great
URL and the best URLs
I've ever seen, which is
the fox.is the Fox is
the fox.is. And from there
that we can find your
GitHub and your photography and
your GitHub repo and the
conferences that you speak at
and stuff like that. Yes.
Yeah. Thanks so much for
chatting with me today, Carolina.
Awesome. That's great. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week. .